Boost: a general purpose C++ library 
GSL : a scientific computing library
QuantLib: a c++ library for mathematical finance.

how a software project can evolve from simple beginnings to become large and sophisticated. 
By seeing how a software project can be put together in stages you will learn how to develop your project in manageable pieces. 
It will also show you how to refactor your code. 
This simply means how to modify your code as you learn from experience to gradually improve your software design.


how header files work:

information hiding:
You shouldn’t declare all your functions in your header files. You should
only declare the functions you want other people to use.
It is good practice to write lots of small helper functions. However, making
these part of your library is confusing for users of your library. Your users will
see the .h files you write as containing the definition of what your library
does. By limiting the amount of information in this file, you make life easier
on your users.
It also gives some other advantages. The moment you have released a
function as part of a library you can never change it except to fix bugs! This
is because someone else might already be using it. The less you give away
in your header file, the less potential there is to write functions you have to
spend the next ten years supporting.

You should try to use the static keyword on all variables and functions
that are not in your header file

By marking this function as static we are saying it can only be used in
the current source file. This means that we can reuse the name in other source
files if desired. It is technically possible (but unlikely) for someone to use a
function defined in another file without declaring it in a header file. Using the
keyword static prevents this trick altogether

inliine


steps of coding a project

declare functions in header files, 
define declared function in a mock manner, 
define declared function by requirement
test it.